Ronin Institute Code of Conduct
Status: Draft
Executive Summary 
Purpose: 
This Code of Conduct provides guidelines for how Ronin Institute Research Scholars are expected to behave when interacting with other Research Scholars, as well as at any time that we are affiliated with, funded by, or representing the Ronin Institute. 
Act in good faith: 
The core values of the Ronin Institute are Truth and Empathy, and these two values guide our Code of Conduct. Scholars should come prepared to engage with each other in good faith, which means presenting our thoughts and ideas honestly and clearly and listening to others with an open mind. 
Expectations: 
The Ronin Institute is dedicated to providing a safe and harassment-free experience for everyone. Harassment is defined as unwelcome conduct that deprives another individual of the opportunities and peaceful enjoyment they may take from participating in the community or an activity. Specifically, we seek to (see the main document for definitions): 
* Be Kind 
* Be Open-minded 
* Practice Micro-equity
	* Be Responsible 
* Be Proactive
	Discuss concerns: 
For any concern at all (no matter how small!), you may reach out to one of the individuals on the Contact list to talk, reflect, discuss, or seek help. Any conflicts of interest will be managed to ensure that your concern is addressed fairly. The Ronin Institute does not tolerate retaliation against or the victimization of any Research Scholar who raises concerns or questions regarding a potential violation of the Code of Conduct. 
Contacts: 
The contact list is composed of Membership Working Group co-leads and other Working Group co-leads.[a] You are welcome to reach out to any individual on the list whom you feel comfortable talking to. 
Contribute to this document: 
Like all things at the Ronin Institute, this Code of Conduct is open to change and improvement. Therefore, all are welcome to reach out with questions and suggestions for changes/additions to this document for incorporation into its next version. [b]
All Ronin Institute Fellows and Affiliates are expected to abide by this Code of Conduct. Our goal is to work together to help ensure a safe environment for everyone. As a community, we commit to enforcing and evolving this code as our Institute grows. 
This Code of Conduct applies to: 
Ronin Institute groups, events, and anywhere else we might interact with fellow Ronin Institute Fellows and Affiliates. 
Any time or place where we affiliate with, are funded by, and/or represent the Ronin Institute (including travel). 
This document is provided to Fellows and Affiliates as part of the “Welcome Packet” and is used as guidance to assess any behavioral issues that might come up. Importantly, this Code of Conduct helps to establish the culture that we want for our community. 
Act In Good Faith and Assume Good Faith from Others 
Our core values at the Ronin Institute are Truth and Empathy, and these two values guide our Code of Conduct. Scholars should come prepared to engage with each other in “Good Faith,” meaning that we present our thoughts and ideas honestly and clearly and listen to others with an open mind. 
Research Fellows and Affiliates are a diverse group, representing different academic disciplines, career stages, cultures, and sets of obligations and constraints. We each have different career and life goals, as well as backgrounds and cultural contexts. 
Always take a breath and remind yourself that there is a person on the other side of the conversation. Work under the assumption that they, like you, are intelligent and well-intentioned. Remember that we’re all in this together, and it is not a zero-sum game. Anything that helps one of our Research Scholars achieve their own goals helps the entire community. Our job is to provide mutual support in a way that will help each person get what they need from the Institute and achieve success on their own terms. 
Expectations 
The Ronin Institute aims for a flat organizational structure, where every person here is, first and foremost, of equal standing. We are dedicated to providing a safe and harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of gender identity and expression, age, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, culture, ethnicity, geographic location, economic standing, religion or other ontological foundations, education, technical skill level, professional status, and all other categories of social differences. 
Harassment is defined as unwelcome conduct that deprives another individual of the opportunities and peaceful enjoyment they may take from participating in the community or an activity. Harassment can be a one-time severe event or repeated minor offenses. 
The Ronin Institute’s Code of Conduct boils down to common sense and basic manners, but here are a few rules of thumb: 
Be kind: 
Be attentive to people’s personal boundaries, and seek consent as much as possible. Be thoughtful when talking with or about each other; consider your word choices carefully. Remember that tone can be hard to judge online. Instead of labeling or classifying people, describe people’s actions or behaviors. Recognize people’s capacity to learn, grow, and change. Sometimes, we make mistakes. Let’s assume that we each hope to do better. 
Be open-minded: 
As our numbers and capacity for interaction grow, there will doubtless be opportunities for spirited discussion, which will sometimes become heated. That’s a good thing, so long as we value different perspectives with an open and listening mind. Challenge your own assumptions about yourself and others. 
Practice micro-equity 
We should all be working to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to participate, share their ideas, and feel valued. Keep an eye out for opportunities to engage people who might feel less confident. Speak plainly, and avoid acronyms, jargon, slang, and idioms; some GIFs/emoji might not translate across cultures. Physical appearance, clothing, and demographic characteristics are unlikely to be germane to any of your conversations at the Ronin Institute. Offer clear and constructive comments that are helpful rather than critical. Be a humble expert, and avoid lecturing and “mansplaining” to others (applicable across all gender identities). Be conscious of who is doing the heavy lifting in groups and activities (note taking, scheduling, document creation, organizing). Aim to include, rather than exclude, as well as to flatten our power structures. 
Be responsible: 
We are all responsible for upholding the professional reputation and culture of the Ronin Institute whenever and wherever we are associated with it. Ronin Institute funds and assets (including names, logos, email addresses, and websites) must be used responsibly, legally, and ethically. 
Be proactive: 
As a community, we are responsible for our institutional culture. Look out for opportunities where we can proactively shape our culture rather than letting events or our reactions shape our culture for us. If you experience or witness any harassment that is occurring and you feel safe doing so, the Ronin Institute supports your efforts to call out harassment (describe it for what it is and ask the individual to stop) and support anyone who may be affected. You are also encouraged to reach out to any of the Code of Conduct contacts (below) to let someone know what happened. 
We do not tolerate harassment in any form. Different types of harassing actions include, but are not limited to: 
* Offensive verbal or written comments related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age, religion, etc 
* Deliberate intimidation, stalking, following, bullying, or hostility 
* Threats or acts of violence 
* Unauthorized photography or recording, including making public recordings or screenshots of online discussions conducted through the Ronin Institute platforms (e.g., Slack, Discord, Zoom) without permission of the participants. 
* Sustained disruption of events or discussions 
* Sexual advances or suggestive behavior/language 
* Microaggressions, which are everyday verbal, nonverbal, and environmental slights, snubs, or insults that communicate hostile, derogatory, or negative messages and serve to exclude others 
* Advocating for or encouraging any of the above behaviors 
A Ronin Institute Research Scholar that is asked (by any Scholar) to stop behaviors that breach the Code of Conduct is expected to cease those behaviors immediately. All breaches of the Code of Conduct are taken seriously, and the Ronin Institute will take action as needed, including warning the offender and/or expulsion from the Ronin Institute. 
Discuss concerns 
If you are being harassed, intimidated, or have any other concerns, please reach out to one of the Ronin Institute Code of Conduct contacts (below) immediately. If you are unsure whether the incident is a violation or whether the space where it happened is covered by this Code of 
Conduct, we still encourage you to report it. We pledge to listen and do our best to help Scholars feel safe and comfortable at the Ronin Institute. 
All reports will be kept confidential within the Ronin Institute Code of Conduct team. In some cases, we may determine that a public statement will be needed. If that is the case, the identities of all victims and reporters will remain confidential unless those individuals tell us otherwise. 
Conflicts of Interest: 
If your concern includes a transgression caused by a member of the Code of Conduct contact list, we will follow the usual enforcement process while excluding the member(s) of the contact list that is involved. 
Anti-retaliation: 
The Ronin Institute does not tolerate retaliation against or victimization of any Research Scholar who raises concerns or questions regarding a potential violation of the Code of Conduct. Any incident of this type should be reported to the Code of Conduct team (who will also consider any conflicts of interest; see above). 
Contacts 
If you have any concerns, please reach out to the primary contact first. However, if you feel more comfortable reaching out to someone from the secondary contact group, please do! 
Primary contacts: 
riis.councilors@gmail.com
Secondary contacts (Working Group leads): 
Names and their contact information can be found here. 
Contribute to this document 
Like all things at the Ronin Institute, our Code of Conduct is open to change and improvement to stay up-to-date with our changing culture and environment. Therefore, all Fellows are welcome to reach out with questions, feedback, and suggestions for changes/additions to be considered for incorporation into the next version of our Code of Conduct. 
Contacts for suggestions of changes in the Code of Conduct document: please contact the Membership Working Group (membership@ronininstitute.org). 
5
[a]we should probably refine and define what this contact list is and make it consistent with whatever else we have in the membership policy and/or by-laws.  also initially there will be no WGs or co-leads, so maybe needs to be the Council (or their designated representatives)
[b]some duplication here with an almost identical section at the end, delete this one and incorporate anything missed into the one at the end?